All right let's bring our books back and put them on top of the table.
So if I shift click of this display layer the books will come back here.
Now what I'd like to do is place these books up on top of the table.
I can just select these and then move them straight up to sit on the table.
I can do that easy enough looks like this one book is a little bit off.
I can move that up some and maybe even rotate it a bit.
I'll press the our key and just rotate that.
Now if your books are too large or too small you can scale them together as one object.
So if I select all of these books and let's scale these objects using different settings for our pivot
point.
So if I scale this with the median point selected I'll hit s and scale it would scale it all around
and the median point of all of those objects.
But also I could change this to individual origins and scale and we'll scale them all down individually
as well.
Now if I chose to scale this from the 3D cursor that pivot point would go down to the 3D cursor and
it would scale from there.
So a couple of different options for you as you move and place the books on your table.
So I'll go back to the median point here.
Now another option is if I'm sure that these books are going to stay in this configuration I can combine
all of these objects together into one.
So to do that once again I can select all the books and press control J and that will combine them all
into one object.
I can then come over here and call this looks.
Now if I needed to split one of these books out from the others make it an individual object again I
can go into edit mode and select just one of these books by hovering over it and pressingly L key when
you press the L key you're selecting the component face edge or vertex that the cursor is hovering over
as well as all the other components that are linked to it.
So L for linked that split this out as its own object I can press the P key.
And that brings up the separate menu so I can choose to separate these things by loose parts by material
or by a selection.
And since I've selected a particular one I'll just choose selection.
And now it's its own object.
I can tab out of edit mode and select this as its own things so books so the book
something like that too.
Now let's take a look at actually creating a bookshelf to go in our scene to do that.
I begin by going to a new layer here.
So I don't have any of the existing objects in my way or go to the Create tab create a cube.
And I'll begin scaling this up with the Eski and moving it up onto the grid here.
Now I'll use the scale manipulator to make this a little bit narrower and maybe my book shelf needs
to be a little bit taller.
Let me bring back the table just to get a sense of scale here.
Yeah let me make this a little bigger.
I'll bring it up in the Z-axis by pressing G and then Z and moving the mouse go and what I'll do is
alt tab into edit mode select a face on top and just move that up until it looks to be about the right
size.
And let's go like that.
We can always scale it up or down.
Once we're done.
So tab back into object mode all de-select this layer by pressing shift and clicking it.
So now we just have our bookshelf layer.
So to create this bookshelf what I need is first to define the walls and the shelves of the thing.
So I'll tab into edit mode and I'll press control our.
And let's see I think maybe this one I'll put up near the top that'll be the top piece I'll put another
one down near the bottom I'll put two edge loops vertically so I'll hover over this edge and then scroll
the mouse wheel one time and that will allow me to create extra edges.
I can scroll it many times insert however many I want.
I just want to hear saw click click again.
And now I'm going to use the scale tool to widen those out for the walls on the side and then I think
I want to use control are again and create four edges here I want to create one two three four and click
and click again.
Now I'm going to select with the Alt key and click that edge and that selects that entire edge all the
way around and then I'm going to press shift and alt and click and that selects that whole edge all
the way around as well and I'll just collapse these down with a scale tool and I'll do the same thing
here.
Alt select shift alt select and scale those down.
All right so there is the beginnings of a bookshelf and I think I want to move that edge up just a hair
so I'm going to go to the move tool and move this up some like so now to create the actual shelves.
I'm going to take these faces and extrude them in so I'll press control tab and choose face mode and
then I'll select this phase shift select this one and shift select this one.
And now I'll just press the e key for extrude and push those back.
Now if I push back too far it will go through so I just want it to go right about there.
And there we are.
Now I compress the achy to de-select and tab to tab back into object mode.
Now I can begin to arrange my scene I'm going to bring back the table with shift select this letter
and shift select that letter.
And now I can begin moving the bookshelf where it needs to be.
Maybe it's going to be over here in this corner
and I can move the table and the books
and move those over say next to here.
Now I've still got the camera and the point light here in the seam.
I can move these or delete them either way but I can move these to a new layer down here by selecting
them and then pressing the M key forward move to layer and selecting a layer for them to go on.
And then they go.
So they're down here now.
So I bring all these back and there is the beginning of my scene.
I could create a floor for this by creating a plain and then scaling it out with the ASCII.
And now you're beginning to see a scene come together so I could take this book let's say and duplicate
it with shift D and begin moving it over and rotating it and placing it on my shelves and then duplicating
it and scaling and arranging them all here.
So with nothing more than simple navigation and selection tools as well as the extrude and the loob
cut and slide modeling tools we've got the beginning of a scene.
It really is amazing the amount that you can do with just these simple tools but in the next video we'll
begin expanding our toolset and talking about processes and techniques that can make our lives a little
easier as we're creating more complex scenes.